Documentation for columnar. (#151739)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/index-modules.md

       - `time_series`:   *(data streams only)* Index mode optimized for storage of metrics. For more information, see [Time series index settings](time-series.md).
       - `logsdb`: Index mode optimized for [logs](docs-content://manage-data/data-store/data-streams/logs-data-stream.md).
       - `vectordb_document` {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga`: Index mode optimized for vector search use cases. Applies settings and defaults tuned for indexing, merging, and searching dense vector data. For details, see [Index modes for vector search](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/dense-vector.md#dense-vector-index-modes).

>        - `columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.5+` Index mode that turns {{es}} into a full analytical and search columnar store. Fields are stored once as doc values with no inverted index or BKD tree by default. For more information, refer to [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).

Reviewer: Related to https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/151739#discussion_r3674118849 If this setting is available in both stack and serverless we should annotate it the same way as vectordb_document:
```suggestion
       - `columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.5+`  {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Index mode that turns {{es}} into a full analytical and search columnar store. Fields are stored once as doc values with no inverted index or BKD tree by default. For more information, refer to [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).
```

Author: I accedentely applied this suggestion. But same question here: columnar is techpreview in serverless too?

>        - `logsdb_columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.5+` Columnar index mode with logging-oriented defaults, including a default `@timestamp` mapping. For more information, refer to [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).

Reviewer: Ditto to be clear that it applies in both contexts:
```suggestion
       - `logsdb_columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.5+`  {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Columnar index mode with logging-oriented defaults, including a default `@timestamp` mapping. For more information, refer to [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).
```

Author: Should this be {applies_to}`serverless: preview` ?

Reviewer: oops yes, whatever the appropriate lifecycle state is for that context.

       - `time_series`:   *(data streams only)* Index mode optimized for storage of metrics. For more information, see [Time series index settings](time-series.md).
       - `logsdb`: Index mode optimized for [logs](docs-content://manage-data/data-store/data-streams/logs-data-stream.md).
       - `vectordb_document` {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga`: Index mode optimized for vector search use cases. Applies settings and defaults tuned for indexing, merging, and searching dense vector data. For details, see [Index modes for vector search](/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/dense-vector.md#dense-vector-index-modes).

>        - `columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview` Index mode that turns Elasticsearch into a full analytical and search columnar store. Fields are stored once as doc values with no inverted index or BKD tree by default. For more information, see [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - `columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.5+` Index mode that turns {{es}} into a full analytical and search columnar store. Fields are stored once as doc values with no inverted index or BKD tree by default. For more information, refer to [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).
```

>        - `logsdb_columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview` Columnar index mode with logging-oriented defaults, including a default `@timestamp` mapping. For more information, see [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - `logsdb_columnar`: {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.5+` Columnar index mode with logging-oriented defaults, including a default `@timestamp` mapping. For more information, refer to [Columnar index mode](/reference/columnar/index.md).
```
